uh so okay so we're trying to do a
whirlwind
implementation of uh symbolic derivation
symbolic
derivatives um because I feel like I I
didn't post in the past three days so
I'd rather stream more than not so I
asked the GPT you know how how might D
be
implemented uh in Mathematica and I got
this and so we are going to just go
through and uh
oh and we need
uh
pattern x
blank and we want this to be a Sim right
uh we'll make the second ARG always a
Sim okay we like go like this me change
this to real because since we don't have
numeric Q we don't have what's the full
form of this let's uh hold at this full
for
bro
pattern
[Music]
test I mean that's pretty
sweet all right but for since we don't
have that we'll just have more
rules rather than a lot than a fewer
rules that capture more stuff so then
here we want to do set d blank Sim blank
Sim one that's pretty
good and then what about this
one
uh
so we're implementing times a
constant and a symbol is going to be oh
wait and we need to keep we keep
forgetting so this
is D of X with the second Argus D of
X then here we need another
pattern x blank Sim okay so then that
should be
good then we need to copy this a bunch
of times you do this for
real then we need to do
this flipped around which is really
lame
it's really lame but it's
fine D plus pattern one blank Sim blank
Sim
dude this thing is really
stupid all right so we'll do this and
then we'll delete all of
this and then we'll
delete this and
this where we at here we're at the end
of D so now we want to do is equal
to plus d exp one
1 x DX for 2x yeah that's
good now product
[Music]
rule oh my audio should be better this
time I uh for some reason it was like
super quiet so I bumped it up like 15D
DB okay set d d times pattern blank
blank x
uh Plus
times is that true I for I always
forget where's the product
rule oh no that's
right we're going to need a standard
form we really are we're going to need
to be able to simplify and
sort Expressions
because
otherwise
the whole thing is just a
mess
okay
for
power
um
okay I might have called it pow
somewhere else these namings are getting
crazy
exper
this just the chain
roll nice I think that's all
good
oh nice and we get
this
looks
Goodtimes
-1 that's
fine all right yeah let's try
that
all
right we need to implement get get would
be really nice why don't I just add
get
for
um let's do
that
okay wait wait wait wait but that's not
going
to
um
okay fine but all we need
is it's going to
take oh now we're getting into file pass
it's kind of annoying but but
I think this should be fine so we do
um uh P of
type uh
exper match P oh and this needs to
return
next
so actually why don't we why don't we
not do
that we are just going to do this and
unwrap
it so then here we're going to say
um evaluated are zero
oops
um uh else uh print line um get takes
and x per
string uh
return
Sim fail okay cool and it's called a
stir okay and then what we want to do is
we want to call run file with our
context which we should have access to
yeah wait
yep uh
um
see
if let
okay and then this is going to
be
P do
into
string
to do I just do
that but it's going to return an
option isn't
it all right let's try
it
right should I just return an
option
well I don't
first okay so what's going on
um Let me give it the function
too
oh yeah fine what do we do we do uh Sim
null yeah let's just do that why not
that's not
great
um I don't love
this because it's ambig us
whe or not something failed
in in reading the file or
something or if the last expert in the
file uh was a set D or
something returns a no okay fine but I
do not
care
okay now I should be able to do
get uh
Slash Lang oh tab complete would be nice
calculus
doxer
cool but see I actually have no
idea
huh I have no idea it's not great well
let's
see down Val
[Music]
use oh no we got
him
dxx one let's go that's sick all right
so what are the test cases
here oh we forgot to comment this up
also why is this not in my nice closure
I want this as closure okay wait we
forgot to comment this out this out and
if it failed to what happened to if let
okay
else
else uh personing line content
okay that sounds
good I hate that it's by line though
like the persons needs to be smarter
about multi-line functions I don't know
what to do about that
but it needs to keep going until it sees
a
okay so
um let's try
it
h
because
plus
h
yeah okay I think it'll work if we just
remove
this how did we do how did we get that
that's
wrong
H so we got the three right 2
times
what should it be it should
be n
* xn
-1 time
D I think we want to do this
clear
D
get yeah now we need sorting now we need
to
sort but I think that
works uh uh okay so we want to
do so wait so in
startup let's make an
Ari H I don't know and then I want this
to be
closure pattern oh yeah that's
right
for
where was that
nice uh time
times
uh
right so I think we can do
that we can do this in system no not
systems in uh
startup under times you could do this
and then we could
do so which I think we should get rid of
both of
these uh and then what we want to do
here is we also want to
do 1 is equal to
times X's y I think that that is pretty
good so then if you do this we do this
now if we take our derivative again 2x +
3 that's [__] sick that is [__]
rad I can't believe it took us so little
time to do
that okay
cool
um D bro we got that
DD all right let's
see
times to
X I'm curious if that
works
[Music]
h
no but that's just an alias for calling
length that's
not
no what I'm looking for is
um I think I'm thinking of
repeated
okay looks like we're
back yeah
man that's [__]
cool that's actually wild what the
hell
that's different than what I thought
that's cool
though what I'm thinking of is like what
is the pattern object that lets me say
that each one in the sequence are
equal
because we want to reduce the uh the
times stuff okay but what what's up with
this
one is that
right let let's find
out yeah we got
it it's not elegant
but why is it trying to do a set D here
you guys are
dumb should we should we start to
implement more attributes I don't
know I guess we'll need to but it's kind
of like you know
whatever
okay 2X
times and let's check if that's
right 2 * e x^2 * X oh that's perfect we
got it right
cool
um
uh
all right so what was that probably 20
minute stream 30 minute stream that's a
perfect length for a for a good thing
like
this Implement basic symbolic
[Music]
differentiation that's sweet
man let's add it to the read
me symbolic diff
differentiation
[Music]
yeah um where's our read me we going to
say C definition of d
in
Lang the hell
[Music]
oh
uh
flat are
not
so the
derivative of
correct is not in simp
cool
man add it to add D
to that
deep
okay hold hold
on